README.md, before:

# smon

<img width="1348" height="763" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/81379b1e-3547-42a5-bde1-725c51b521f6" />

A terminal user interface (TUI) for monitoring Slurm clusters. Built with [Textual](https://github.com/Textualize/textual) for DGX H100 clusters.

> **⚠️ Development Notice**: This project is mainly implemented by LLM (Sonnet 4/GPT-4) and is not complete, has bugs. Contributions are welcome, including major changes.

## Features

- Job monitoring with live updates
- Node status display with GPU availability
- GPU count display with partition info
- Script viewer with syntax highlighting
- Output tracking (stdout/stderr)
- Search and filtering
- Tabbed TUI interface
- Keyboard shortcuts

## Installation

### Using `uvx`/`uv tool` (recommended)

```sh
# 1. Use uvx
$ uvx --from git+https://github.com/MilkClouds/smon.git smon

# 2. Use uv tool
$ uv tool install git+https://github.com/MilkClouds/smon.git
$ smon
```

### Using pip

```sh
$ pip install git+https://github.com/MilkClouds/smon.git
$ smon
```

## Usage

### Basic Usage

```sh
smon
```

### Command Line Options

```sh
smon --help                    # Show help
smon --refresh 10              # Set refresh interval to 10 seconds
smon --user alice              # Filter jobs by user
smon --partition gpu           # Filter jobs by partition
```

## Keyboard Shortcuts

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| `q` | Quit application |
| `r` | Refresh data |
| `/` | Focus search input |
| `f` | Show filter status |
| `s` | Open script modal for selected job |
| `o` | Open output modal for selected job |
| `t` | Toggle real-time output refresh |
| `Ctrl+R` | Refresh output in current tab |

## TUI Interface

### Jobs Tab
- Job information: JobID, User, State, Partition, Resources
- GPU/CPU/memory usage and timing
- Select job to view details, script, and output

### Script Tab
- Shows script for selected job
- Bash syntax highlighting
- Modal view with `s` key

### Output Tab
- stdout/stderr for selected jobs
- Real-time refresh toggle (`t`)
- Manual refresh (`Ctrl+R`)

### Nodes Tab
- Node status and availability
- GPU/CPU/memory per node

## Requirements

- Python ≥ 3.11
- Slurm cluster with `squeue`, `sinfo`, and `scontrol` commands
- Terminal with color support

## Dependencies

- [Textual](https://github.com/Textualize/textual) - TUI framework
- [Rich](https://github.com/Textualize/rich) - Text formatting

## Related projects

- https://github.com/wjwei-handsome/Slurmer

## Contributing

This TUI project is primarily implemented using LLM assistance (Sonnet 4/GPT-4) and is incomplete with known bugs. Contributions are welcome:

- Bug fixes
- Feature improvements
- Code refactoring
- Documentation
- Major changes
- Testing

Feel free to open issues or submit pull requests.

Commit message:

feat: Add gpustat-web integration details to README; include setup instructions and usage examples

README.md, after:

# smon

<img width="1348" height="763" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/81379b1e-3547-42a5-bde1-725c51b521f6" />

A terminal user interface (TUI) for monitoring Slurm clusters. Built with [Textual](https://github.com/Textualize/textual) for DGX H100 clusters.

> **⚠️ Development Notice**: This project is mainly implemented by LLM (Sonnet 4/GPT-4) and is not complete, has bugs. Contributions are welcome, including major changes.

## Features

- Job monitoring with live updates
- Node status display with GPU availability
- GPU count display with partition info
- Script viewer with syntax highlighting
- Output tracking (stdout/stderr)
- Search and filtering
- Tabbed TUI interface
- Keyboard shortcuts
- [gpustat-web](https://github.com/wookayin/gpustat-web) integration for real-time GPU monitoring

## Installation

### Using `uvx`/`uv tool` (recommended)

```sh
# 1. Use uvx
$ uvx --from git+https://github.com/MilkClouds/smon.git smon

# 2. Use uv tool
$ uv tool install git+https://github.com/MilkClouds/smon.git
$ smon
```

### Using pip

```sh
$ pip install git+https://github.com/MilkClouds/smon.git
$ smon
```

## Usage

### Basic Usage

```sh
smon
```

### Command Line Options

```sh
smon --help                    # Show help
smon --refresh 10              # Set refresh interval to 10 seconds
smon --user alice              # Filter jobs by user
smon --partition gpu           # Filter jobs by partition
smon --gpustat-web URL         # Enable gpustat-web integration
```

## Keyboard Shortcuts

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| `q` | Quit application |
| `r` | Refresh data |
| `/` | Focus search input |
| `f` | Show filter status |
| `s` | Open script modal for selected job |
| `o` | Open output modal for selected job |
| `t` | Toggle real-time output refresh |
| `Ctrl+R` | Refresh output in current tab |

## TUI Interface

### Jobs Tab
- Job information: JobID, User, State, Partition, Resources
- GPU/CPU/memory usage and timing
- Select job to view details, script, and output

### Script Tab
- Shows script for selected job
- Bash syntax highlighting
- Modal view with `s` key

### Output Tab
- stdout/stderr for selected jobs
- Real-time refresh toggle (`t`)
- Manual refresh (`Ctrl+R`)

### Nodes Tab
- Node status and availability
- GPU/CPU/memory per node
- gpustat-web integration (side-by-side view)

## gpustat-web Integration

smon can display real-time GPU status from [gpustat-web](https://github.com/wookayin/gpustat-web) alongside the Slurm node information.

### Setup

1. Make sure gpustat-web is running on your cluster (e.g., `http://10.50.0.111:48109/`)

2. Run smon with the `--gpustat-web` option:
   ```sh
   smon --gpustat-web http://10.50.0.111:48109/
   ```

3. Or add to config file (`~/.config/smon/config.json`):
   ```json
   {
     "gpustat_web_url": "http://10.50.0.111:48109/"
   }
   ```

The Nodes tab will show the Slurm node table on the left and live GPU status from gpustat-web on the right.

## Requirements

- Python ≥ 3.11
- Slurm cluster with `squeue`, `sinfo`, and `scontrol` commands
- Terminal with color support

## Dependencies

- [Textual](https://github.com/Textualize/textual) - TUI framework
- [Rich](https://github.com/Textualize/rich) - Text formatting

## Related projects

- https://github.com/wjwei-handsome/Slurmer

## Contributing

This TUI project is primarily implemented using LLM assistance (Sonnet 4/GPT-4) and is incomplete with known bugs. Contributions are welcome:

- Bug fixes
- Feature improvements
- Code refactoring
- Documentation
- Major changes
- Testing

Feel free to open issues or submit pull requests.
